---
layout: post
title:  "An update on the invasion of Ukraine"
date:   2022-03-02
author: q
---

This is not a blog post I've wanted to write, but we find ourselves in this situation whether
we like it or not. The amount of detail we can provide is limited by just how fast everything is
moving at the moment, but we'll do our best to summarise what we do and don't know.

First lets be clear: Russia's invasion of Ukraine is wholly unacceptable, just as any other 
unprovoked invasion would be. We have absolutely no sympathy for the Russian government or 
their actions. We also feel it important to stress that we understand this is not an action by
the Russian people and the views and actions of the Russian government do not represent those of
the vast majority of the Russian people.

As a result of being a UK company and the new sanctions imposed by the British government there may
be some extra delays with orders placed by users with possible connections (real or otherwise)
to Russia. We understand this may cause some frustration, but we have little choice in this 
matter.

Unlike some other companies we will not be imposing blocks on Russia or boycotting the entire 
Russian economy. We will do everything we can to ensure we do not provide support to the Russian
government - inadvertently or otherwise - but we will not be taking steps that harm the Russian
people as we understand this war is not in any way their fault.

We'll also be working to ensure that all other users globally are as unaffected as possible by this
situation. Due to the sanctions imposed on a large number of Russian banks globally there may be
delays or issues in managing domains registered under Russian owned or controlled TLDs. As this is
all so fast moving we're unsure where/if problems will occur, but we'll deal with any issues that
arise on a case-by-case to the best of our ability.

Let's all hope for peace in our time 🇺🇦